# Random-Day

An iPhone, iPad and Mac app to generate random schedules 

This is an app for iPhone, iPad and Mac that allows you to organize your days but adding a bit of randomness to make them less boring during quarantine or working at home.

## Code

I described the app in the video but I didn't explained anything about the code so I'll do it here.

This is an app made with SwiftUI and a little bit of UIKit and is ported to macOS with Catalyst.

The database is just a JSON encoded struct saved in the disk.

The code for the UI is [here](https://github.com/ColdGrub1384/Random-Day/tree/main/Random%20Day/UI) and everything else is [here](https://github.com/ColdGrub1384/Random-Day/tree/main/Random%20Day/Model).

The app displays a sidebar on iPad and Mac and a tab bar in iPhone or iPad in compact mode. I don't think that needs too much explanation because I think this code is pretty understandable and is just basic SwiftUI.

[The sidebar UI](https://github.com/ColdGrub1384/Random-Day/blob/main/Random%20Day/UI/Sidebar.swift)

[The tabs UI](https://github.com/ColdGrub1384/Random-Day/blob/main/Random%20Day/UI/Sidebar.swift)

### UI

- `ContentView`: The root UI
- `DayPlanner`: The UI for configurating the schedule of a weekday
- `NewTaskDialogTableViewController`: The UI for creating a new task
- `Sidebar`: The sidebar navigation UI
- `Tabs`: The tab bar navigation UI
- `TaskCategoriesTableViewController`: The UI for managing task categories
- `TaskCategoryPicker`: The UI for creating a random space in the schedule
- `TaskPicker`: The UI for creating a static space in the schedule
- `TasksTableViewController`: The UI to manage the tasks in the selected category
- `TodayScreen`: Shows the schedule for today
- `WeekScreen`: Shows the week days so the user can configure them

### Model

- `CurrentDayManager`: Gives the information for today and manages real time updates
- `Database`: The database struct is encoded into JSON and saved to disk
- `DatabaseManager`: A singleton that holds and manages the database
- `Day`: The schedule for a day generated by the app.
- `FutureTask`: A space in the schedule that the user created. The app will take care of randomizing it and create a `Task` from it
- `PlannedDay`: The schedule for a day created by the user. The app will generate a `Day` from it
- `SelectedSection`: Just a helper for the UI
- `Task`: A task generated by the app.
- `TaskCategory`: A category of tasks. The app can take one of the items of the category randomly if it's selected by the user in the schedule
`Weekday`: Weekdays basically

### Widget

The widget is just a typical iOS 14 widget that shows what the user has to do now.

### iCloud syncing

The database is synced via iCloud thanks to the library [Zephyr](https://github.com/ArtSabintsev/Zephyr/tree/591cba54b141b951f1c89de33d9bb15561dbba64).
